In 2007, a young Mark Zuckerberg stood on a stage in San Francisco and announced that Facebook was throwing open its doors.No longer, he said, would Facebook be a closed-off software product like every other social network. Instead, it would become an open platform and invite outside developers to build apps and programs on top of it.“We want to make Facebook into something of an operating system,” Mr. Zuckerberg told a reporter.At the time, the announcement drew little notice outside the programming world. Developers quickly went to work making fun and quirky apps that plugged into Facebook — early hits included “Rendezbook,” a kind of proto-Tinder that allowed users to match with each other for “random flings,” and CampusRank, which allowed college students to nominate their peers for yearbook-type awards.Later, popular games like FarmVille arrived, and apps like Tinder and Spotify began allowing their users to log in using their Facebook credentials. In some ways, it was a fair trade. Facebook got to weave itself more deeply into users’ internet habits, and the outside app developers got access to a big audience and valuable data about their users. In all, millions of apps have been created with Facebook’s open platform tools.Through it all, Facebook’s users were mostly unfazed. Sure, these apps collected data about their lives. But they seemed convenient and harmless, and, really, what could go wrong?Today, more than a decade later, the consequences of Facebook’s laissez-faire approach are becoming clear. Over the weekend, The New York Times reported that Cambridge Analytica, a British consulting firm, improperly acquired the private data of about roughly 50 million Facebook users, and used it to target voters on behalf of the Trump campaign during the 2016 presidential election.What happened with Cambridge Analytica wasn’t technically a data breach, since this trove of personal information wasn’t stolen from Facebook’s servers. Rather, it was given away freely to the maker of a Facebook personality quiz app called “thisisyourdigitallife.”That app, which was developed by a University of Cambridge professor, collected data about the 270,000 people who installed it, along with data about their Facebook friends, totaling 50 million people in all. The professor, Aleksandr Kogan, then gave the data he had harvested to Cambridge Analytica.Technically, only this last step violated Facebook’s rules, which prohibit selling or giving away data collected by a third-party app. The rest was business as usual. Third-party apps collect vast amounts of detailed personal information about Facebook users every day, including their ages, location, pages they’ve liked and groups they belong to. Users can opt out of sharing specific pieces of information, but it’s unclear how many do.This kind of broad data collection is not only allowed but encouraged by Facebook, which wants to keep developers happily building on top of its platform. Permissiveness is a feature, as they say, not a bug.But in the wake of incidents like the data leak to Cambridge Analytica, some are questioning the costs of such loose policies on an influential platform with 2.2 billion registered users.“It seems insane that you can make haphazard decisions about so many people’s data,” said Can Duruk, a technology consultant and software engineer. Facebook, he said, was “extremely lax with what kind of data they allowed people to get.”In a Facebook post on Monday, Andrew Bosworth, a Facebook vice president, admitted that that thinking may have been a mistake.“We thought that every app could be social,” Mr. Bosworth wrote. “Your calendar should have your events and your friends birthdays, your maps should know where your friends live, your address book should show their pictures. It was a reasonable vision but it didn’t materialize the way we had hoped.”An early clue about the potential for misuse of Facebook’s third-party developer tools came in 2010 when my colleague Emily Steel, then at The Wall Street Journal, reported that an online tracking company, RapLeaf, was collecting and reselling data it had gathered from third-party Facebook apps to marketing firms and political consultants. In response, Facebook cut off RapLeaf’s data access and said it would “dramatically limit” the misuse of its users’ personal information by outside parties.But preventing data-hungry developers from exploiting Facebook’s treasure trove of personal information remained challenging. In 2015, Facebook removed the ability of third-party developers to collect detailed information about the friends of users who had installed an app, citing privacy concerns. (Cambridge Analytica’s data trove, which included this type of information, was gathered in 2014, before the change.) Facebook has also taken away tools used by developers to create games and quizzes that barraged users with annoying notifications.But the core functions of Facebook’s open platform tool are still intact. There are still many third-party apps like “thisisyourdigitallife” out there, vacuuming up intimate data about Facebook users. That data doesn’t disappear, and Facebook has no real recourse to stop it from falling into the wrong hands.Not all open data access is used irresponsibly. Researchers and nongovernmental organizations have used Facebook’s third-party development tools to respond to natural disasters. And many of the functions that internet users depend on — for example, the ability to import their digital address books into a new messaging app — are possible thanks only to the tools that allow for third-party development known as application programming interfaces, or A.P.I.s.“Everything we depend on uses A.P.I.s,” said Kin Lane, a software engineer who maintains a website called API Evangelist. “They’re in your home, in your business, in your car. It’s how these platforms innovate and do cool, interesting things.”In Facebook’s case, permissive data policies were also good for business. Third-party developers built millions of apps on top of Facebook’s platform, giving Facebook users more reasons to spend time on the site and generating more ad revenue for the company. Restricting access to data would limit Facebook’s usefulness to developers and could drive them to build on a rival platform instead, making those products better.In this context, it’s even less surprising that Dr. Kogan and Cambridge Analytica were able to use a silly personality quiz to collect information about millions of Americans. After all, why else would the quiz be there?For the past several years, Facebook has been conducting what amounts to an A/B test on human society, using two different social media apps.The first app in Facebook’s test has a maximalist design: It allows users to post lengthy status updates, with links to news articles, photos, videos and more. The app is designed as a giant megaphone, with an emphasis on public sharing and an algorithmic feed capable of sending posts rocketing around the world in seconds.The second app in the test is more minimalist, designed for intimate sharing rather than viral broadcasting. Users of this app, many of whom have private accounts with modest followings, can post photos or videos, but external links do not work and there is no re-share button, making it harder for users to amplify one another’s posts.The results of this test have been stark. The first app, Facebook, turned into a huge and unmanageable behemoth that swallowed the media industry, was exploited by hostile foreign actors, empowered autocrats, created the conditions for a global fake news epidemic and ultimately became a giant headache for its creators.The second app, Instagram, has fared much better. It hasn’t been overrun with bogus news, it hasn’t been exploited to the same degree, and most users seem happy with it — especially young users, who vastly prefer it to Facebook.Mark Zuckerberg has pledged to spend 2018 cleaning up Facebook, and ensuring that “our services aren’t just fun to use, but also good for people’s well-being.” He’s also pledged to deal with the scourge of fake news on Facebook, and do a better job of keeping bad actors at bay.Good for him. But there may be a simpler fix here. Why doesn’t he make his beleaguered blue app more like Instagram, the Facebook-owned app that isn’t destabilizing society?Last week, Facebook unveiled its latest attempt to rein in its flagship product. In an effort to curb false news, it announced it would be allowing Facebook users to rank news outlets by trustworthiness, and consider those scores when deciding which news stories to display in users’ feeds.But this kind of minor algorithmic knob-fiddling may not be enough. Instead, Facebook should consider using what it’s learned with Instagram, which it acquired in 2012, to embark on a gut renovation.If I were Mr. Zuckerberg, here are some Instagram lessons I’d be thinking about.Lesson No. 1: Emphasize visuals. De-emphasize text.First, and most obviously, Instagram is a visual medium. Photos and videos are the main event, and text, while present, is mostly confined to captions and comments. As a result, Instagram feels more intimate than Facebook, where photos and videos often sit alongside lengthy diatribes, restaurant check-ins and mundane status updates.Research has shown that, in some cases, visual platforms can be good for us. One study, published by researchers at the University of Oregon in 2016, found that the use of image-based platforms like Instagram and Snapchat was associated with lower levels of loneliness among users, and higher levels of happiness and satisfaction, while text-based platforms had no correlation with improved mental health.A heavily visual platform also makes a relatively poor conduit for breaking news and in-the-moment commentary, which might explain why Instagram often feels less exhausting than other social networks. (It also explains why last month, before I went on vacation, I deleted every social media app from my phone except Instagram — the only app I trusted not to ruin my beachside calm.)Lesson No. 2: Rethink the share button.One of Instagram’s most underrated virtues is that it has imposed structural limits on virality — the ability of a given post to spread beyond its intended audience. Unlike Twitter and Facebook, on Instagram there is no native sharing function, meaning that the reach of most Instagram posts is capped at the number of people who follow the user’s account. (There are ways to “regram” someone else’s photo using a third-party app, but they’re clunky, and relatively few people use them. Instagram also recently began showing users posts from people they don’t follow, a Facebook-inspired change that I’d argue is a mistake.)A native share button has been tremendously useful for Facebook’s and Twitter’s growth. It has also allowed upstart media organizations like BuzzFeed and Upworthy to build enormous audiences by specializing in highly shareable stories. But ease of sharing has also allowed the loudest and most emotional voices to be rewarded with clicks — and attention. It’s this incentive structure that has allowed partisans and profiteers to hijack Facebook’s algorithms and spread divisive messages and false news to millions of people.The easy virality of Facebook also seems to have made individual users more hesitant about opening up. That makes sense — it’s easier to share a selfie if you know it won’t accidentally find its way into the feeds of a million strangers.Lesson No. 3: Ban links.Instagram’s greatest structural advantage, though, may be a result of its decision to go mostly link-free. Links in Instagram captions and comments aren’t clickable, and while some users have found workarounds, the vast majority of Instagram posts aren’t meant to send users to outside websites. (The exceptions are ads, which can contain clickable links and are, not coincidentally, the most troubled part of Instagram’s platform.)The walled-garden nature of Instagram has frustrated publishers, who want to send followers out to their websites, where the publishers can earn advertising money and “control the reader experience.” (It’s really just about the money.) But Instagram has wisely refused to give in, perhaps realizing that allowing links might turn the platform into a screeching bazaar, with publishers and pages all doing circus acts for clicks.Removing links from Facebook would wreak havoc on the digital media industry, which has built an economic model around referral traffic from Facebook. It would also risk alienating some users, who enjoy promoting and discussing stories from other parts of the internet. But it would also solve some of the platform’s most vexing challenges. And ultimately, it would be better for the world.After all, malicious actors don’t post fabricated news, wildly exaggerated headlines or partisan outrage-bait on Facebook only for fun. They do it, in many cases, because it’s profitable. Take away bad actors’ incentives and they’ll go elsewhere.Banning most links doesn’t seem to have hurt Instagram as a business. It had more than 800 million monthly active users as of September, and it gained a million new advertisers last year. Facebook doesn’t break out Instagram’s revenue, but some analysts expect the app could one day generate as much as $10 billion in annual revenue. That’s still nowhere near Facebook, which earned $10 billion in revenue last quarter alone, but it’s a meaningful number, and it shows that insularity isn’t always a bad thing.Lesson No. 4: Bad actors are unavoidable, but their influence can be contained.Instagram is far from a perfect social network, and copying it wouldn’t fix all of Facebook’s problems overnight. Among other issues, some research has shown that use of Instagram can breed insecurity and bullying, and exacerbate body image issues, especially among young women.Instagram also hosts its own sketchy microeconomy — just witness the scourge of Insta-celebrities endorsing dubious health products, or the uptick in fly-by-night consumer brands that market themselves using Instagram ads.And Russian propagandists did use Instagram to try to influence American voters before the 2016 presidential election, with posts that reached as many as 20 million users. (Far less than the estimated 126 million people who were reached by Russian posts on Facebook, but a hefty number nonetheless.)But even these flaws are preferable to the structural problems that have plagued Facebook.Given the choice between a version of Facebook that made some of its users feel ugly and unpopular, and one that could be used to undermine democracies and promote misinformation around the world, I know which one I’d pick. A few billion Facebook users might agree.I am a multiracial woman from a small family that is otherwise white. A close relative is in hospice care. My family made it clear that they expect me, my (immigrant) husband and our young son to visit him before he dies. But this relative has become active in alt-right causes, posting offensive material about minorities, immigrants and women on Facebook. Some family members have asked me to “leave politics at the door” and “turn the other cheek.” Others threatened to ostracize us if we don’t visit. Should I?A.S.Ignore your relatives’ claptrap. Leaving politics at the door is easy — so long as it’s not your race, husband or gender being trampled inside its threshold. And have you noticed that requests to “turn the other cheek” are most popular with folks asking us to turn ours, but rarely their own? Finally, the threat of ostracism (a.k.a. bullying) is ridiculous. Who needs relatives that turn off and on like spigots?No, the only reason to make a pilgrimage to see this problematic relative is if the man ever treated you with love and kindness — even as a child. If he did, you have at least one thing to weigh against the hate-mongering of his later days. It may not be enough for you, and I would respect that too, but it’s something to keep in mind.The other consideration is the suffering of his immediate kin. If you have a tender impulse toward them, in what is surely a terrible time, I can envision a farewell visit that is made for their sake and not for the dying man’s. There are a few moving pieces here, even putting aside your relatives’ sillier claims. Think about it, and wherever you land is the right answer (for you).A close friend who was in my wedding party and his then-girlfriend came to my wedding without giving us a gift. Now, two years later, this couple is getting married. My wife and I cannot agree how to handle the situation. Should we address the situation directly with our friends or just give them a wedding gift?ANONYMOUSThe cost of being a groomsman can range from several hundred to several thousand dollars, depending on clothing requirements, wedding locations and bachelor parties — or worse, bachelor-party weekends. In this context, it is probably not factually correct to say your friend gave you nothing. (And speaking for a tiny subset of the universe: I don’t want to be in anyone’s wedding — ever! Factor that in, too.)My advice: Peruse your pal’s wedding registry, choose a lovely gadget from Williams Sonoma, and stop nursing wounds from two years ago. A “close friend” is worth much more than a blender — especially if he shows up for you on your big days.Years ago, I lent my friend an expensive handbag. (It cost more than a car.) We agreed that I would ask for it back when I wanted it. Two years later, I asked for it back. She told me her sister borrowed it and lost it. I was extremely annoyed but let it go. Later, I ran into the sister. When I asked how she lost the bag, she said she had no idea what I was talking about. Since then, I saw my friend wearing the bag at an event. She lied to me! I asked for the bag immediately, and have reiterated the request several times since then, but she always puts me off. What should I do?S.L.Undoubtedly, it is hard to learn that a pal values your handbag more highly than you. (At least it’s expensive!) Fortunately, I own a plate by the artist John Derian with an old handwritten note from the Algonquin Hotel decoupaged on it. It contains the perfect advice for your predicament: “Please don’t make me make trouble for you in trying to get my things back. I shall not write you again myself and will give you the rest of this week to return them.” After sending a version of this note, and waiting said week, turn over the matter of the automobile-priced purse to the local police.I have a 9-month-old daughter. Sometimes, when we are out, strangers ask to take her picture. I feel awkward about this and would prefer they didn’t. But how can I express this without offending someone who just told me how cute my baby is?MEIThe same way I did, last week, when a woman approached my table in a restaurant and asked if she could photograph my fluke tartare to post on Instagram. I smiled and said: “Thank you for asking. But I’d rather you didn’t.” She looked confused but left eventually. We have no duty to cater to strangers with cameras.Until your daughter is old enough to make her own modeling decisions, you must make them for her, governed by her best interests, not the (sort of understandable) desire to avoid momentary awkwardness with utter strangers and their creepy requests. It’s the job, Mom!Q. How do I delete Facebook Messenger from my phone?A. Facebook Messenger, the company’s chat program, was spun out of the Facebook mobile app in 2011, before the social network removed the chat function from the main app in 2014. As with other third-party apps, you can remove it from your phone with a few taps.If you use Messenger on a phone running a recent version of Android, open the Settings icon and select Apps & Notifications. Find the Messenger icon; if you do not see it, tap See All Apps (or App Info) first. Tap the Uninstall option. You can also delete an app from the Android home screen by pressing its icon and then dragging it to the Uninstall symbol that appears at the top of the screen.You can also remove Android apps by opening the Google Play store icon on your phone, tapping the three-lined menu icon in the top-left corner and selecting My Apps & Games. On the next screen, tap the Installed tab, find the Messenger icon and tap the Open button. When the app’s page is open, tap the Uninstall button.To delete Messenger on an iPhone, go to the home screen, find the app’s icon and press your finger on it until the tile begins to wiggle. Once the wiggling starts, a small X appears in the icon’s top-left corner. Tap the X, and when the alert box pops up, confirm you wish to delete the app.Even if you remove the mobile Messenger app (and do not delete your Facebook account), your Facebook friends can still send you messages when you are logged into the desktop version of the site. A stand-alone web version is also available at Messenger.com. If you prefer not to use the chat function, tell your friends to reach you by other means.