SYDNEY —  Australia's Privacy Commissioner said on Thursday she had opened a formal investigation into social media giant Facebook Inc after the company confirmed data from 300,000 Australian users may have been used without authorisation.The investigation will consider whether Facebook has breached Australia's privacy laws, Privacy Commissioner Angelene Falk said in a statement.Facebook said on Wednesday that the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more than 50 million.(Reporting by Tom Westbrook; Editing by Michael Perry)SYDNEY —  Australia on Thursday said it had begun an investigation to decide whether social media giant Facebook Inc breached its privacy laws, after the company confirmed data from 300,000 Australian users may have been used without authorization.Personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, Facebook said on Wednesday, exceeding a media estimate of more than 50 million.In a statement, Australia's privacy commissioner, Angelene Falk, said her office would "confer with regulatory authorities internationally", given the global nature of the matter.A Facebook spokeswoman in Australia said the company would be "fully responsive" to the investigation and had recently updated some privacy settings.Facebook's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, told reporters during a conference call that he accepted blame for the data leak.Zuckerberg is due to testify about the matter next week during two U.S. congressional hearings, and the data breach has drawn criticism from lawmakers and regulators around the world.London-based Cambridge Analytica, which has counted U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign among its clients, disputed Facebook's estimate of affected users.It said in a tweet on Wednesday that it received no more than 30 million records from a researcher it hired to collect data about people on Facebook.Australia's investigation follows comments by New Zealand's privacy commissioner last week that Facebook had broken laws in that country, a charge the company called disappointing.Australia's competition regulator is already investigating whether Facebook and Alphabet Inc's Google had disrupted the news media to the detriment of publishers and consumers.(Reporting by Tom Westbrook; Editing by Michael Perry and Clarence Fernandez)JAKARTA, Indonesia —  Indonesian government said Friday it is investigating Facebook over the privacy breach of its Indonesian users.The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology said in a statement that it had asked the National Police chief to investigate possible violations of Indonesia's privacy law a day after Facebook announced that personal data of more than 1 million Indonesians might have been exposed by political consultant Cambridge Analytica.It said Facebook representatives in Indonesia could face up to 12 years in prison and a fine of $871,000, if convicted.The ministry summoned the representatives late Thursday to deliver a warning letter.Communications Minister Rudiantara told reporters after the meeting that he has asked Facebook to stop its applications that could allow third parties to get users' personal information."We ask Facebook to provide us their audit results to see how the personal information is used by the Cambridge Analytica," said Rudiantara, who like many Indonesians uses a single name.Facebook Indonesia Head of Public Policy Ruben Hattari said they will keep cooperating with the Indonesian government."Our main goal is to secure privacy data of all Facebook users," Hattari said after the meeting.Indonesia is the world's fourth-largest Facebook user with more than 115 million active members, and nearly 97 percent of them are on mobile devices.WELLINGTON, New Zealand —  New Zealand's privacy commissioner said Wednesday that Facebook broke the law by not releasing information to a man who wanted to know what others were saying about him on the social network.Commissioner John Edwards said Facebook refused the man access to personal information that was held on the accounts of several Facebook users. Edwards said the company claimed it wasn't bound by New Zealand's privacy laws and didn't have to comply with a request from his office to take a look at the disputed information.Facebook said Edwards had made a "broad and intrusive" request for private data, and that the company was protecting its users."We are disappointed that the New Zealand privacy commissioner asked us to provide access to a year's worth of private data belonging to several people and then criticized us for protecting their privacy," the company said in a statement.The commissioner's finding allows the man to seek financial damages against Facebook. The man wasn't named and it wasn't immediately clear whether he would pursue damages.The case also raises jurisdictional questions. Edwards said Facebook should comply by New Zealand laws but the company was arguing it's not bound by them because its operation is based in Ireland.Edwards said Facebook has 2.5 million users in New Zealand, about half of the nation's population, and that it takes money from New Zealand businesses."We don't believe there's any credible question that it's operating in New Zealand and is subject to New Zealand laws," he said.Facebook didn't address the jurisdictional question in its statement.The company said it had investigated the man's complaint but hadn't got enough detail to resolve it. Facebook said it scrutinized all requests to disclose personal data, particularly the contents of private messages, and would continue to challenge those that were too broad."We have a long history of working with the commissioner, and we will continue to request information that will help us investigate this complaint further," the company said.One course of action for Facebook would be to challenge the commissioner's findings in court. The company did not immediately respond to questions about whether it would pursue legal action.Authorities in the U.S. and Europe are bearing down on Facebook and political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica over allegations the firm stole data from 50 million Facebook users and used it to manipulate elections.There have been numerous demands for investigations and calls for Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify. Zuckerberg has said he's willing to testify before Congress to answer questions about the privacy scandal. But he suggested other executives might be better qualified to field questions from lawmakers.___IN THE UNITED KINGDOM:— PARLIAMENT COMMITTEE: The U.K. parliamentary media committee has summoned Zuckerberg to testify. The chairman, Damian Collins, said his panel has repeatedly asked Facebook how it uses data. He said Facebook officials "have been misleading to the committee." In a letter to Zuckerberg, Collins wrote, "It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process."— INFORMATION COMMISSIONER: Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is pursuing a warrant to search Cambridge Analytica's servers. Although Cambridge Analytica said it is committed to helping the U.K. investigation, Denham's office said the firm failed to meet a deadline to produce the information requested. Denham said the prime allegation against Cambridge Analytica is that it acquired personal data in an unauthorized way.___IN GERMANY:— Germany's justice minister says she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook, following a meeting with executives about the abuse of users' private data. Katarina Barley says Facebook representatives assured her Monday that such breaches wouldn't occur again and pledged to inform those users who were affected.___IN THE UNITED STATES:— SENATE: The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee says he's invited Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify at a hearing next month on data privacy. Sen. Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican, says the April 10 hearing will cover how consumer data is collected, retained and distributed for commercial use. Senate Democrats have also been seeking information or Zuckerberg's testimony, while Republicans on the Commerce Committee also sent letters requesting information from Facebook and Cambridge parent SCL Group.— HOUSE: Chris Wylie, a former Cambridge Analytica employee who became a whistleblower, has agreed to be interviewed by Democrats on the U.S. House Intelligence Committee. A date has not been set, and it's unclear if Republicans on the panel will attend.— FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION: The agency confirms it will investigation following news reports last week. Tom Pahl, acting director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection, said the U.S. probe would include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances, though the FTC's probe may extend to Facebook's compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data.— INDIVIDUAL STATES: The attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories sought details Monday on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse. They also asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to control the privacy of their accounts more easily.NEW YORK —  U.S. regulators and state attorneys general are increasing pressure on Facebook as they probe whether the company's data-collection practices have hurt the people who use its services.The Federal Trade Commission confirmed news reports on Monday that it was investigating the company. Separately, the attorneys general for 37 U.S. states and territories sought details Monday on how Facebook monitored what app developers did with data collected on Facebook users and whether Facebook had safeguards to prevent misuse.Facebook's privacy practices have come under fire after revelations that a Trump-affiliated consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, got data on millions of Facebook users. That included information on friends of people who had downloaded a psychological quiz app, even though those friends hadn't given explicit consent to sharing.Facebook is also facing questions about reports that it collected years of contact names, telephone numbers, call lengths and information about text messages from Android users. Facebook says the data is used "to improve people's experience across Facebook" by helping to connect with others. But the company did not spell out exactly what it used the data for or why it needed it.European officials also have also been investigating or seeking more information. Germany's justice minister said Monday that she wants closer oversight of companies such as Facebook after a meeting with its executives about the abuse of users' data. Last week, a U.K. parliamentary media committee summoned CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify about how Facebook uses data, while U.K. Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham is investigating how Cambridge Analytica got the data.In addition, the state's attorney of Cook County in Illinois has sued Facebook and Cambridge Analytica for consumer fraud after revelations that the latter obtained data on millions of Facebook users. Facebook has not commented on the lawsuit.The recent troubles follow Facebook's most difficult year yet, as the company dealt with fake news, "filter bubbles" that lead to increasing polarization, and congressional hearings over Russian agents' alleged use of social media to meddle with the 2016 presidential elections.In January, Zuckerberg set fixing Facebook as his personal challenge for 2018. Nearly three months in, it's a taller order than ever.Tom Pahl, acting director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection, said the U.S. probe would include whether the company engaged in "unfair acts" that cause "substantial injury" to consumers. Facebook reached a settlement with the FTC in 2011 offering privacy assurances, though the FTC's probe may extend to Facebook's compliance with U.S.-EU principles for transferring data.Facebook said in a statement on Monday that the company remains "strongly committed" to protecting people's information and that it welcomes the opportunity to answer the FTC's questions.Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, believes Facebook was in violation of the 2011 settlement in letting Cambridge Analytica harvest data on friends of Facebook users. He called the investigation "good news.""This is what Facebook was doing 10 years ago that people objected to, what the FTC should have stopped in 2011," Rotenberg said. "It makes zero sense that when a person downloads their apps, they have the ability to transfer the data of their friends."Although Zuckerberg talked about changes in 2014 that would have prevented this, Rotenberg said it should have been banned already under the 2011 consent decree. He said the FTC had dropped the ball in failing to enforce that.Meanwhile, state attorneys general asked Zuckerberg for an update on how Facebook will allow users to control the privacy of their accounts more easily."Facebook has made promises about users' privacy in the past, and we need to know that users can trust Facebook," they wrote. "With the information we have now, our trust has been broken."In a statement, Facebook's vice president for state and local public policy, Will Castleberry, said the attorneys general "have raised important questions and we appreciate their interest. Our internal review of the situation continues and we look forward to responding."Facebook's stock, which already took a big hit last week, fell Monday after the FTC announcement but recovered by the end of the day. With Monday's close at $160.06, the stock is down almost 14 percent since March 16, when the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke.___Selsky reported from Salem, Oregon. AP Technology Writer Anick Jesdanun contributed to this story.Facebook said it would roll out a centralized system for its users to control their privacy and security settings in response to an outcry over the way it has handled personal data.The system, which will be introduced to Facebook users globally over the coming weeks, will allow people to change their privacy and security settings from one place rather than having to go to roughly 20 separate sections across the social media platform.From the new page, users can control the personal information the social network keeps on them, such as their political preferences or interests, and download and review a file of data Facebook has collected about them. Facebook also will clarify what types of apps people are currently using and what permissions those apps have to gather their information.Facebook began developing the centralized system last year but sped it up after revelations that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, improperly harvested the information of 50 million users of the social network. The amount of data Cambridge Analytica obtained about Facebook users reawakened fears over how much information the social network has gathered about people, leading to a #DeleteFacebook movement and other criticism.“The last week showed how much more work we need to do to enforce our policies, and to help people understand how Facebook works and the choices they have over their data,” Erin Egan, Facebook’s chief privacy officer, and Ashlie Beringer, a Facebook deputy general counsel, said in a statement announcing the new system. “We’ve heard loud and clear that privacy settings and other important tools are too hard to find, and that we must do more to keep people informed.”The Cambridge Analytica scandal has plunged Facebook into its worst crisis in years, with regulators and lawmakers in the United States and Britain demanding answers about how the social network deals with data privacy. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, has agreed to appear in front of lawmakers on Capitol Hill next month, people familiar with the decision have said.Last week, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a statement that Facebook had to do better with user data and promised to roll out products that give users more control over their information and privacy settings.“One of our biggest responsibilities is to protect data,” he told The New York Times last week. “Whenever there’s an issue where someone’s data gets passed to someone who the rules of the system shouldn’t have allowed it to, that’s rightfully a big issue and deserves to be a big uproar.Late Wednesday, Facebook also said that it was halting its practice of allowing advertisers to target ads using information from third-party data brokers. These are business-to-business companies that can collect a vast range of details about individual consumers such as their shopping habits, health concerns, income range and preferred credit card.The social network had previously allowed advertisers to use consumer details from data brokers like Experian, Acxiom and Oracle’s Datalogix unit to help target ads to Facebook users. But Facebook said it was now mothballing that option, called “Partner Categories.””We want to let advertisers know that we will be shutting down Partner Categories,” Graham Mudd, a product marketing director at Facebook, said in a statement.“This product enables third-party data providers to offer their targeting directly on Facebook,” he added. “While this is common industry practice, we believe this step, winding down over the next six months, will help improve people’s privacy on Facebook.”In 2012, the Federal Trade Commission opened an inquiry into data brokers and subsequently recommended that Congress consider enacting a law “to make data broker practices more visible to consumers and to give consumers greater control over the immense amounts of personal information about them collected and shared by data brokers.”How much of a difference these actions may make to Facebook’s data privacy practices was unclear. Some privacy advocates noted, for instance, that the company’s new centralized privacy and security settings page has been tried in the past.“The platform made similar promises many times before,” said Zeynep Tufekci, an associate professor at the University of North Carolina who studies how technology affects society. She pointed out that in 2010, Mr. Zuckerberg said in The Washington Post that Facebook users needed simpler controls over their privacy and had promised then that Facebook would “add privacy controls that are much simpler to use.”Yet eight years later, the same concerns have resurfaced, Ms. Tufekci said.“The past decade shows that user concerns over privacy appear to have little teeth on changing how the platform behaves, aside from a recycling of contrite statements and promises to do better from its C.E.O.,” she said.A parade of regulators, politicians and law enforcement officials demanded to know more about Facebook’s privacy practices on Monday, as the fallout from the company’s relationship with a political data firm continued to spread.Early in the day, the Federal Trade Commission confirmed reports that it was investigating how Facebook handles information about its users.Soon after, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, invited Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, to testify about privacy standards next month. He also extended invitations to Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, and Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey.And a group of 37 attorneys general sent Mr. Zuckerberg a letter asking for details about Facebook’s privacy safeguards.But one group of people interested in Facebook — investors — had a muted reaction to the growing regulatory threat. Shares of Facebook fell sharply after the F.T.C. confirmed its investigation but ended the day up 0.4 percent as overall trading on Wall Street recovered from a big drop last week.The federal investigation and threats followed recent news that the data collection firm Cambridge Analytica, which worked on the 2016 Trump presidential campaign, gained access to the personal data of more than 50 million Facebook users.The F.T.C. said it planned to determine whether the social media giant had violated a consent decree it signed in 2011 to protect users’ privacy.The decree required Facebook to notify and receive explicit permission from users before sharing their personal information beyond the limits dictated by their privacy settings. Each violation of the agreement, which the agency reached with Facebook as part of a settlement over third-party apps, carries a penalty of up to $40,000 a day.The agency’s acknowledgment of its investigation helped push Facebook’s stock down as much as 6.5 percent on Monday morning before it recovered. Facebook said last week that it was anticipating an inquiry by the agency.The F.T.C. said in a statement on Monday that it “takes very seriously recent press reports raising substantial concerns about the privacy practices of Facebook.”Lawmakers have repeatedly called for Mr. Zuckerberg to appear in hearings on Capitol Hill. Last week, the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate commerce committees formally invited him to testify.“I’m sure this is much bigger than Cambridge Analytica, and I’m sure there are other Cambridge Analyticas out there,” Senator John Kennedy, Republican from Louisiana, said in an interview. “Facebook isn’t just a company. It is so powerful it is like a country.”Some lawmakers, such as Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat from Connecticut, asked the F.T.C. to look into whether Facebook should pay damages to users.“The sphere of scrutiny must be broader than just the consent decree,” he said in a statement. “There is no excuse for delay.”Cambridge Analytica is facing intense criticism, too. On Monday, Common Cause, a government watchdog group in Washington, filed complaints seeking federal investigations into allegations that the company violated federal election law.In an article that detailed how Cambridge Analytica obtained information about millions of Facebook users, The New York Times reported this month that employees of the data research firm with European or Canadian citizenship had worked extensively for its American clients during the 2014 and 2016 elections, despite a warning from its own election lawyer.The employees worked on polling, message development, and the designing of target audiences for digital ads and fund-raising appeals.The company said the work was permissible because none of the foreign employees had “strategic” or “operational” roles. But former employees contradicted that account, suggesting that the work violated laws in the United States that strictly limit what non-Americans can do for American political campaigns.Common Cause filed one complaint with the Justice Department, which has authority to investigate “knowing and willful” violations of campaign law. The group also filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission, which has day-to-day jurisdiction over enforcing election rules.“It defies belief that even after their own attorney warned them that they would be violating the prohibition on performing certain election-related activities in U.S. elections that they did so anyway,” said Paul S. Ryan, Common Cause’s vice president for policy and litigation.In the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco, lawyers appealed two lawsuits that challenged the social media company’s privacy and user data policies. One lawsuit claims that Facebook violates the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (Wiretap Act) and state law equivalents because of the way it monitors its users on and off the platform.The second suit claims that Facebook has been capturing and selling the details of users’ browsing of third-party health sites. Any site with a Facebook “like” button, including those of medical institutions such as the American Cancer Society and the American Society of Clinical Oncology, could be used to track users as they browsed outside Facebook, according to the lawsuit.Facebook also has been targeted by several shareholder lawsuits since the reports detailing Cambridge Analytica’s use of Facebook user information.Many users have threatened to deactivate or delete their accounts to protest Facebook’s stewardship of their personal data. The #deletefacebook campaign, as it has been called, has even received support from a creator of WhatsApp, one of Facebook’s most popular services, who sold his company to the social media giant for $19 billion in 2014. Elon Musk, the chief executive of SpaceX and Tesla, removed the Facebook pages of both companies on Friday.While the Cambridge Analytica revelations have renewed regulatory interest in Facebook in the United States, pressure on the company in other countries has been building for years.